doc/source/structures/vessels/attitudecontroller.rst, before:

.. _attitudecontroller:

Attitude Controller
======

A ship usually has various attitude controllers like control surfaces, engines, RCS thrusters, rotors and drain valves. These controllers can be configured as follows:

    local controllers to ship:AttitudeControllers.
    print(controllers[0]:ControllerType + " allows pitch: " + controllers[0]:allowPitch).

.. structure:: AttitudeController

    .. list-table:: Members
        :header-rows: 1
        :widths: 1 1 2

        * - Suffix
          - Type (units)
          - Description

        * - :attr:`PART`
          - :struct:`Part <Part>`
          - The part this controller belongs to.
        * - :attr:`MODULE`
          - :struct:`PartModule <PartModule>`
          - The module this controller belongs to. Will return false if there is no matching module.
        * - :attr:`ALLOWPITCH`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Gets or sets wheter this controller should respond to pitch input.
        * - :attr:`ALLOWYAW`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Gets or sets wheter this controller should respond to yaw input.
        * - :attr:`ALLOWROLL`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Gets or sets wheter this controller should respond to roll input.
        * - :attr:`ALLOWX`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Gets or sets wheter this controller should respond to x translation input.
        * - :attr:`ALLOWY`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Gets or sets wheter this controller should respond to y translation input.
        * - :attr:`ALLOWZ`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Gets or sets wheter this controller should respond to z translation input.
        * - :attr:`HASCUSTOMTHROTTLE`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Wheter this controller has a custom throttle input.
        * - :attr:`CUSTOMTHROTTLE`
          - :ref:`scalar <scalar>` (%)
          - The value the custom throttle.
        * - :attr:`ROTATIONAUTHORITYLIMITER`
          - :ref:`scalar <scalar>` (%)
          - The authority limit for rotation.
        * - :attr:`TRANSLATIONAUTHORITYLIMITER`
          - :ref:`scalar <scalar>` (%)
          - The authority limit for translation.
        * - :attr:`CONTROLLERTYPE`
          - :ref:`string <string>`
          - The type of the controller.
        * - :attr:`STATUS`
          - :ref:`string <string>`
          - A string indicating more detailed status about the controller if available.
        * - :attr:`RESPONSETIME`
          - :ref:`scalar <scalar>`
          - The reported responsetime of the controller.
        * - :attr:`POSITIVEROTATION`
          - :struct:`AttitudeCorrectionResult <AttitudeCorrectionResult>`
          - What is expected to happen when you provide a positive value to pitch, yaw, roll.
        * - :attr:`NEGATIVEROTATION`
          - :struct:`AttitudeCorrectionResult <AttitudeCorrectionResult>`
          - What is expected to happen when you provide a negative value to pitch, yaw, roll.
        * - :meth:`RESPONSEFOR`
          - :struct:`AttitudeCorrectionResult <AttitudeCorrectionResult>`
          - What is expected to happen for arbitrary combinations of pitch, yaw, roll, translate x, translate y, translate z, custom throttle.


.. note::

    The rotation responses are simplified models of reality and are likely to be off to various degrees.



.. _attitudecontroller_PART:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:PART

    :access: Get
    :type: :struct:`Part <Part>`

    The part this controller belongs to.

.. _attitudecontroller_MODULE:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:MODULE

    :access: Get only
    :type: :struct:`PartModule <PartModule>`

    The module this controller belongs to. Will return false if there is no matching module.

.. _attitudecontroller_ALLOWPITCH:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ALLOWPITCH

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Determines whether this controller is allowed to respond to pitch input.

.. _attitudecontroller_ALLOWYAW:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ALLOWYAW

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Determines whether this controller is allowed to respond to yaw input.

.. _attitudecontroller_ALLOWROLL:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ALLOWROLL

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Determines whether this controller is allowed to respond to roll input.

.. _attitudecontroller_ALLOWX:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ALLOWX

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Determines whether this controller is allowed to respond to translation fore input.

.. _attitudecontroller_ALLOWY:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ALLOWY

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Determines whether this controller is allowed to respond to translation top input.

.. _attitudecontroller_ALLOWZ:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ALLOWZ

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Determines whether this controller is allowed to respond to translation star input.

.. _attitudecontroller_HASCUSTOMTHROTTLE:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:HASCUSTOMTHROTTLE`

    :access: Get only
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Returns true if this controller has a custom throttle you can modify.

.. _attitudecontroller_CUSTOMTHROTTLE:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:CUSTOMTHROTTLE

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`scalar <scalar>` (%)

    Sets the custom throttle for this controller.

.. _attitudecontroller_ROTATIONAUTHORITYLIMITER:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ROTATIONAUTHORITYLIMITER

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`scalar <scalar>` (%)

    Sets the authority limiter used during rotation.

.. _attitudecontroller_TRANSLATIONAUTHORITYLIMITER:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:TRANSLATIONAUTHORITYLIMITER

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`scalar <scalar>` (%)

    Sets the authority limiter used during translation.

.. _attitudecontroller_CONTROLLERTYPE:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:CONTROLLERTYPE

    :access: Get only
    :type: :ref:`string <string>`

    The type of the attitude controller (ENGINE, DRAINVALVE, ROTOR, RCS, REACTIONWHEEL) or UNKNOWN if the exact type is unknown.

.. _attitudecontroller_STATUS:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:STATUS

    :access: Get only
    :type: :ref:`string <string>`

    The status of the controller if known. UNKNOWN otherwise.
   
.. _attitudecontroller_RESPONSETIME:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:RESPONSETIME

    :access: Get only
    :type: :ref:`scalar <scalar>`

    The reported response time of this controller.

.. _attitudecontroller_POSITIVEROTATION:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:POSITIVEROTATION

    :access: Get only
    :type: :struct:`AttitudeCorrectionResult <AttitudeCorrectionResult>`

    What is expected to happen when you provide a positive value to pitch, yaw, roll.

.. _attitudecontroller_NEGATIVEROTATION:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:NEGATIVEROTATION

    :access: Get only
    :type: :struct:`AttitudeCorrectionResult <AttitudeCorrectionResult>`

    What is expected to happen when you provide a negative value to pitch, yaw, roll.

.. _attitudecontroller_RESPONSEFOR:

.. method:: AttitudeController:RESPONSEFOR(pitchYawRollInput, translateXYZInput, throttle)

    :parameter pitchYawRollInput: A vector describing user pitch, yaw, roll input between -1 and 1.
	:parameter translateXYZInput: A vector describing user fore, top, star translation input between -1 and 1.
	:parameter throttle: A scalar representing the custom throttle value in percent.
    :type: :struct:`AttitudeCorrectionResult <AttitudeCorrectionResult>`

    Simulates the effect of the given input on the ship. This allows computing things like RCS thruster inbalances.

Commit message:

Renamed some variables as follows to fit with the rest of kOS:
  1 - Elsewhere in kOS, the project uses the standard that
  Properties are capitalized just like Methods are.  (Only
  local vars and fields that are passive (no getter/setter) are
  lowercased.)

  2 - I renamed ``vesselTransform`` and ``vesselRotation`` inside
  SteeringManger.FindMOI() to ``vesTransform`` and ``vesRotation``.
  This is just a matter of preference that I'd like to make the names
  explicitly tell the reader these differ from the instance members of
  the same name.  (i.e. not having to depend on noticing the method is
  static to realize what's going on.)

I also started to write up more explicit documentation, where I would
test each suffix and then write a more detailed description of what it
does, but I didn't get past the first paragraph.  I stopped when I
started noticing how many of these suffixes are just hardcoded stubs
for now that aren't actually implemented.  I didn't realize most of
the suffixes are just placeholders until I started trying to document
them.

(AllowPitch, AllowRoll,
AllowYaw, AllowX, AllowY, AllowZ, RotationAuthorityLimiter,
TranslationAuthorityLimiter, HasCustomThrottle, CustomThrottle,
ControllerType, Status, ResponseTime.)

doc/source/structures/vessels/attitudecontroller.rst, after:

.. _attitudecontroller:

Attitude Controller
===================

A ship usually has various parts that can rotate or translate the ship.
(These include areodynamic control surfaces, engines with gimbaled thrust,
RCS thrusters, reaction wheels, and drain valves.)
Information about these controllers can be read, and in some cases set,
using the ``AttitudeController`` structure defined on this page.

Example::

    local controllers is ship:AttitudeControllers.
    print(controllers[0]:part + " allows pitch? " + controllers[0]:allowPitch).

.. structure:: AttitudeController

    .. list-table:: Members
        :header-rows: 1
        :widths: 1 1 2

        * - Suffix
          - Type (units)
          - Description

        * - :attr:`PART`
          - :struct:`Part <Part>`
          - The part this controller belongs to.
        * - :attr:`MODULE`
          - :struct:`PartModule <PartModule>`
          - The module this controller belongs to. Will return false if there is no matching module.
        * - :attr:`ALLOWPITCH`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Gets or sets wheter this controller should respond to pitch input.
        * - :attr:`ALLOWYAW`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Gets or sets wheter this controller should respond to yaw input.
        * - :attr:`ALLOWROLL`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Gets or sets wheter this controller should respond to roll input.
        * - :attr:`ALLOWX`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Gets or sets wheter this controller should respond to x translation input.
        * - :attr:`ALLOWY`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Gets or sets wheter this controller should respond to y translation input.
        * - :attr:`ALLOWZ`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Gets or sets wheter this controller should respond to z translation input.
        * - :attr:`HASCUSTOMTHROTTLE`
          - :ref:`Boolean <boolean>`
          - Wheter this controller has a custom throttle input.
        * - :attr:`CUSTOMTHROTTLE`
          - :ref:`scalar <scalar>` (%)
          - The value the custom throttle.
        * - :attr:`ROTATIONAUTHORITYLIMITER`
          - :ref:`scalar <scalar>` (%)
          - The authority limit for rotation.
        * - :attr:`TRANSLATIONAUTHORITYLIMITER`
          - :ref:`scalar <scalar>` (%)
          - The authority limit for translation.
        * - :attr:`CONTROLLERTYPE`
          - :ref:`string <string>`
          - The type of the controller.
        * - :attr:`STATUS`
          - :ref:`string <string>`
          - A string indicating more detailed status about the controller if available.
        * - :attr:`RESPONSETIME`
          - :ref:`scalar <scalar>`
          - The reported responsetime of the controller.
        * - :attr:`POSITIVEROTATION`
          - :struct:`AttitudeCorrectionResult <AttitudeCorrectionResult>`
          - What is expected to happen when you provide a positive value to pitch, yaw, roll.
        * - :attr:`NEGATIVEROTATION`
          - :struct:`AttitudeCorrectionResult <AttitudeCorrectionResult>`
          - What is expected to happen when you provide a negative value to pitch, yaw, roll.
        * - :meth:`RESPONSEFOR`
          - :struct:`AttitudeCorrectionResult <AttitudeCorrectionResult>`
          - What is expected to happen for arbitrary combinations of pitch, yaw, roll, translate x, translate y, translate z, custom throttle.


.. note::

    The rotation responses are simplified models of reality and are likely to be off to various degrees.



.. _attitudecontroller_PART:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:PART

    :access: Get
    :type: :struct:`Part <Part>`

    The part this controller belongs to.

.. _attitudecontroller_MODULE:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:MODULE

    :access: Get only
    :type: :struct:`PartModule <PartModule>`

    The module this controller belongs to. Will return false if there is no matching module.

.. _attitudecontroller_ALLOWPITCH:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ALLOWPITCH

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Determines whether this controller is allowed to respond to pitch input.

.. _attitudecontroller_ALLOWYAW:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ALLOWYAW

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Determines whether this controller is allowed to respond to yaw input.

.. _attitudecontroller_ALLOWROLL:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ALLOWROLL

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Determines whether this controller is allowed to respond to roll input.

.. _attitudecontroller_ALLOWX:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ALLOWX

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Determines whether this controller is allowed to respond to translation fore input.

.. _attitudecontroller_ALLOWY:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ALLOWY

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Determines whether this controller is allowed to respond to translation top input.

.. _attitudecontroller_ALLOWZ:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ALLOWZ

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Determines whether this controller is allowed to respond to translation star input.

.. _attitudecontroller_HASCUSTOMTHROTTLE:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:HASCUSTOMTHROTTLE`

    :access: Get only
    :type: :ref:`boolean <boolean>`

    Returns true if this controller has a custom throttle you can modify.

.. _attitudecontroller_CUSTOMTHROTTLE:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:CUSTOMTHROTTLE

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`scalar <scalar>` (%)

    Sets the custom throttle for this controller.

.. _attitudecontroller_ROTATIONAUTHORITYLIMITER:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:ROTATIONAUTHORITYLIMITER

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`scalar <scalar>` (%)

    Sets the authority limiter used during rotation.

.. _attitudecontroller_TRANSLATIONAUTHORITYLIMITER:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:TRANSLATIONAUTHORITYLIMITER

    :access: Get/Set
    :type: :ref:`scalar <scalar>` (%)

    Sets the authority limiter used during translation.

.. _attitudecontroller_CONTROLLERTYPE:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:CONTROLLERTYPE

    :access: Get only
    :type: :ref:`string <string>`

    The type of the attitude controller (ENGINE, DRAINVALVE, ROTOR, RCS, REACTIONWHEEL) or UNKNOWN if the exact type is unknown.

.. _attitudecontroller_STATUS:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:STATUS

    :access: Get only
    :type: :ref:`string <string>`

    The status of the controller if known. UNKNOWN otherwise.
   
.. _attitudecontroller_RESPONSETIME:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:RESPONSETIME

    :access: Get only
    :type: :ref:`scalar <scalar>`

    The reported response time of this controller.

.. _attitudecontroller_POSITIVEROTATION:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:POSITIVEROTATION

    :access: Get only
    :type: :struct:`AttitudeCorrectionResult <AttitudeCorrectionResult>`

    What is expected to happen when you provide a positive value to pitch, yaw, roll.

.. _attitudecontroller_NEGATIVEROTATION:

.. attribute:: AttitudeController:NEGATIVEROTATION

    :access: Get only
    :type: :struct:`AttitudeCorrectionResult <AttitudeCorrectionResult>`

    What is expected to happen when you provide a negative value to pitch, yaw, roll.

.. _attitudecontroller_RESPONSEFOR:

.. method:: AttitudeController:RESPONSEFOR(pitchYawRollInput, translateXYZInput, throttle)

    :parameter pitchYawRollInput: A vector describing user pitch, yaw, roll input between -1 and 1.
	:parameter translateXYZInput: A vector describing user fore, top, star translation input between -1 and 1.
	:parameter throttle: A scalar representing the custom throttle value in percent.
    :type: :struct:`AttitudeCorrectionResult <AttitudeCorrectionResult>`

    Simulates the effect of the given input on the ship. This allows computing things like RCS thruster inbalances.
